<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Rebecca’s Point of View</p>
			</hgroup>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Mother</b>⁠—I am safely here. My dress was not much tumbled and Aunt Jane helped me press it out. I like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cobb very much. He chews but throws newspapers straight up to the doors. I rode outside a little while, but got inside before I got to Aunt Miranda’s house. I did not want to, but thought you would like it better. Miranda is such a long word that I think I will say Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> and Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> in my Sunday letters. Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> has given me a dictionary to look up all the hard words in. It takes a good deal of time and I am glad people can talk without stoping to spell. It is much eesier to talk than write and much more fun. The brick house looks just the same as you have told us. The parler is splendid and gives you creeps and chills when you look in the door. The furnature is ellergant too, and all the rooms but there are no good sitting-down places exsept in the kitchen. The same cat is here but they do not save kittens when she has them, and the cat is too old to play with. Hannah told me once you ran away with father and I can see it would be nice. If Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> would run away I think I should like to live with Aunt <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> She does not hate me as bad as Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> does. Tell Mark he can have my paint box, but I should like him to keep the red cake in case I come home again. I hope Hannah and John do not get tired doing my chores.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your afectionate friend</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Rebecca.</p>
					<div epub:type="z3998:postscript">
						<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.S.</abbr> Please give the piece of poetry to John because he likes my poetry even when it is not very good. This piece is not very good but it is true but I hope you won’t mind what is in it as you ran away.</p>
						<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
							<p>
								<span>This house is dark and dull and dreer</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No light doth shine from far or near</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Its like the tomb.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>And those of us who live herein</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Are most as dead as serrafim</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Though not as good.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>My gardian angel is asleep</span>
								<br/>
								<span>At leest he doth no vigil keep</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Ah! woe is me!</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>Then give me back my lonely farm</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where none alive did wish me harm</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Dear home of youth!</span>
							</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
					<div epub:type="z3998:postscript">
						<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">P.S.</abbr> again. I made the poetry like a piece in a book but could not get it right at first. You see “tomb” and “good” do not sound well together but I wanted to say “tomb” dreadfully and as serrafim are always “good” I couldn’t take that out. I have made it over now. It does not say my thoughts as well but think it is more right. Give the best one to John as he keeps them in a box with his birds’ eggs. This is the best one.</p>
						<blockquote epub:type="z3998:poem">
							<header>
								<p>
									<span>Sunday Thoughts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>by</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rebecca Rowena Randall</span>
								</p>
							</header>
							<p>
								<span>This house is dark and dull and drear</span>
								<br/>
								<span>No light doth shine from far or near</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Nor ever could.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>And those of us who live herein</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Are most as dead as seraphim</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Though not as good.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>My guardian angel is asleep</span>
								<br/>
								<span>At least he doth no vigil keep</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">But far doth roam.</span>
							</p>
							<p>
								<span>Then give me back my lonely farm</span>
								<br/>
								<span>Where none alive did wish me harm,</span>
								<br/>
								<span class="i1">Dear childhood home!</span>
							</p>
						</blockquote>
					</div>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear Mother</b>⁠—I am thrilling with unhappyness this morning. I got that out of Cora The Doctor’s Wife whose husband’s mother was very cross and unfealing to her like Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> to me. I wish Hannah had come instead of me for it was Hannah that was wanted and she is better than I am and does not answer back so quick. Are there any peaces of my buff calico. Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> wants enough to make a new waste button behind so I wont look so outlandish. The stiles are quite pretty in Riverboro and those at Meeting quite ellergant more so than in Temperance.</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>This town is stilish, gay and fair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And full of wellthy riches rare,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I would pillow on my arm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The thought of my sweet Brookside Farm.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p class="continued">School is pretty good. The Teacher can answer more questions than the Temperance one but not so many as I can ask. I am smarter than all the girls but one but not so smart as two boys. Emma Jane can add and subtract in her head like a streek of lightning and knows the speling book right through but has no thoughts of any kind. She is in the Third Reader but does not like stories in books. I am in the Sixth Reader but just because I cannot say the seven multiplication Table Miss Dearborn threttens to put me in the baby primer class with Elijah and Elisha Simpson little twins.</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>Sore is my heart and bent my stubborn pride,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With Lijah and with Lisha am I tied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My soul recoyles like Cora Doctor’s Wife,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like her I feer I cannot bare this life.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>I am going to try for the speling prize but fear I cannot get it. I would not care but wrong speling looks dreadful in poetry. Last Sunday when I found seraphim in the dictionary I was ashamed I had made it serrafim but seraphim is not a word you can guess at like another long one outlandish in this letter which spells itself. Miss Dearborn says use the words you <em>can</em> spell and if you cant spell seraphim make angel do but angels are not just the same as seraphims. Seraphims are brighter whiter and have bigger wings and I think are older and longer dead than angels which are just freshly dead and after a long time in heaven around the great white throne grow to be seraphims.</p>
				<p>I sew on brown gingham dresses every afternoon when Emma Jane and the Simpsons are playing house or running on the Logs when their mothers do not know it. Their mothers are afraid they will drown and Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> is afraid I will wet my clothes so will not let me either. I can play from half past four to supper and after supper a little bit and Saturday afternoons. I am glad our cow has a calf and it is spotted. It is going to be a good year for apples and hay so you and John will be glad and we can pay a little more morgage. Miss Dearborn asked us what is the object of edducation and I said the object of mine was to help pay off the morgage. She told Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> and I had to sew extra for punishment because she says a morgage is disgrace like stealing or smallpox and it will be all over town that we have one on our farm. Emma Jane is not morgaged nor Richard Carter nor <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Winship but the Simpsons are.</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>Rise my soul, strain every nerve,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy morgage to remove,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gain thy mother’s heartfelt thanks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy family’s grateful love.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p class="continued">Pronounce family <em>quick</em> or it won’t sound right.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your loving little friend</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Rebecca.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:salutation">Dear John</b>⁠—You remember when we tide the new dog in the barn how he bit the rope and howled. I am just like him only the brick house is the barn and I can not bite Aunt <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> because I must be grateful and edducation is going to be the making of me and help you pay off the morgage when we grow up.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your loving</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Becky.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
